Study Type:
in Train
    692
    Relationships between reduction in symptoms and restoration of function and wellbeing: Outcomes of the Oral Ketamine Trial on Suicidality (OKTOS).^
    Recovery of functioning is integral to successful treatment outcomes in depressive illness. Optimal antidepressant treatment results in both symptomatic remission and functional recovery. Oral ketamine rapidly reduces suicidality and depression; however, reports of functional and wellbeing outcomes are lacking. This study examines participants' social and occupational functioning and wellbeing outcomes in the Oral Ketamine Trial on Suicidality (OKTOS). Thirty adults with chronic suicidality participated in the trial over 10 weeks. Functional recovery and wellbeing were assessed using the Social and Occupational Functioning Scale (SOFAS) and World Health Organization Well-Being Index (WHO-5). Suicidality and depressive symptoms were assessed using the Beck Scale for Suicidal ideation (BSS) and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Relationships between the four treatment outcomes were analysed. Forty-three percent of participants achieved healthy function (SOFAS ≥ 80) and 27% reported healthy wellbeing (WHO-5 > 60%) at the four-week post-treatment follow-up. Wellbeing was revealed as the data-derived treatment endpoint for the sample. Effect sizes for functioning and wellbeing outcomes were smaller than for suicidality and depression outcomes. Results suggest that reduction in depressive symptoms and suicidal ideation may be necessary but not sufficient for full restoration of function and wellbeing in antisuicidal and antidepressant therapy, including clinical trials.
    [1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1] == Randomized-controlled trial (RCT), Other ==> Other (as defined by Benjmain 27.08.2025)

Study Conclusion
in Train
    9566
    Association of VEGF with antianhedonic effects of repeated-dose intravenous ketamine in treatment-refractory depression.^
    Objectives: To first explore the role of plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) concentrations in ketamine's antianhedonic effects, focusing on Chinese patients with treatment-refractory depression (TRD). Methods: Seventy-eight patients with treatment-refractory major depressive disorder (MDD) or bipolar disorder (BD) were treated with six ketamine infusions (0.5 mg/kg). Levels of anhedonia were measured using the Montgomery–Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) anhedonia item at baseline, day 13 and 26. Plasma VEGF concentrations were examined at the same time points as the MADRS. Results: Despite a significant reduction in anhedonia symptoms in individuals with treatment-refractory MDD (n = 59) or BD (n = 19) after they received repeated-dose ketamine infusions (p < 0.05), no significant changes in plasma VEGF concentrations were found at day 13 when compared to baseline (p > 0.05). The alteration of plasma VEGF concentrations did not differ between antianhedonic responders and non-responders at days 13 and 26 (all ps > 0.05). Additionally, no significant correlations were observed between the antianhedonic response to ketamine and plasma VEGF concentrations (all ps > 0.05). Conclusion: This preliminary study suggests that the antianhedonic effects of ketamine are not mediated by VEGF. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved)

    [1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0] == Positive, Neutral ==> Positive (as defined by Benjmain 27.08.2025)

in Val
    6072
    Antidepressant Effects of Ayahuasca: a Randomized Placebo Controlled Trial in Treatment Resistant Depression.^
    1) Background The therapeutic effectiveness of currently available antidepressant is low. Less than 50% of the patients achieve remission after single treatment, and about 30% after four different treatments. Besides low response rates, pharmacological treatment are associated with several side effects and response onset is usually long ( 2‐3 weeks). Thus, great effort has been made to the development of alternative antidepressants. For instance, ketamine, a N‐methyl‐D‐aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, has rapid and potent antidepressant effects in treatment of major depressive and bipolar disorders. This proposal aims at testing the antidepressant effects of Ayahuasca, traditionally prepared by decoction of two plants: Psychotria viridis and Banisteriopsis caapi, long used by Amazonian Amerindians. P. viridis is a rich source of the serotonergic agonist N,N‐dimethyltryptamine (DMT), whereas B. caapi contains potent monoamine oxidase‐A inhibitors (MAOi‐A) such as harmine, harmaline, and tetrahydroharmine, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Common effects of Ayahuasca include sedation, gastrointestinal distress, changes of spatiotemporal scaling, dissociation, sense of well‐being, insights, feelings of apprehension, increased interoceptive attention and sensory pseudo‐hallucinations. Effects begin at 30‐40 min after oral intake, and last up to 4 hours. Previous studies suggest the absence of psychological, neuropsychological or psychiatric harm caused by prolonged Ayahuasca consumption, and it is not addictive, on the contrary, it also shows promise in treating addiction. Recently, two preliminary open label studies have tested tolerability, safety and the antidepressant effect of Ayahuasca in treatment‐resistant depression. In the first study, six patients were recruited, in the second, 17 patients. The results show significant decrease in depression severity (HAM‐D & MADRS scales) already at 2 hours after intake, which lasted for 21 days. Although the results are promising, they must be considered with caution, specially due to the lack of control of the placebo effect, which is generally high in clinical trials. Thus, the present study is a randomized placebo‐controlled trial in 50 patients with treatment resistant depression. Besides the Antidepressant effects of Ayahuasca, this study will also evaluate different biomarkers of depression, including anatomical and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), serum levels of BDNF, TNF‐a, cortisol, IL‐6, and IL‐10, polysomnography, neuropsychological and psychiatric scales and questionnaires. 2. Methods All 50 patients will undergo routine evaluation, including complete blood testing for individual glycemic profile, serum cholesterol and triglyceride, plasma sodium and potassium, urea and creatinine. Patients will undergo a wash‐out period, between 7 and 14 days prior to the experimental session, depending on the lifetime of the antidepressant in use. Experiments will take place at the Hospital Universitário Onofre Lopes, a tertiary university hospital affiliated to the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN), Brazil. In the treatment session, 25 patients will drink Ayahuasca, 25 will drink an inert placebo. Psychiatric scales (HAM‐D, MADRS, BPRS, CADSS and YMRS) will be completed during treatment session, day one before (‐D1), one day after (+D1), two days (+D2), seven days (+D7), fourteen days (+D14), one month (+M1), and up to six months (+M6) following the treatment session. The following exams will also be conducted at D‐1 and D+1: neuropsychological tests (watch test, trail test, and N‐back), structural and functional MRI, polysomnography and blood testing (BDNF, TNF‐a, cortisol, oxytocin, IL‐6, and IL‐10).
    [1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1] == Positive, Not Applicable ==> Not applicable (as defined by Benjmain 27.08.2025)

